Now what I contend is that my body is my own, at least I have always so regarded it. If I do harm through my experimenting with it, it is I who suffer, not the state.
I haven't a particle of confidence in a man who has no redeeming petty vices whatsoever.
Suppose you were an idiot. And suppose you were a member of Congress. But I repeat myself.
Be respectful to your superiors, if you have any.
Loyalty to petrified opinions never yet broke a chain or freed a human soul in this world — and never will.
As I slowly grow wise I briskly grow cautious.
The difference between the almost right word and the right word is really a large matter—'tis the difference between the lightning-bug and the lightning.
I am opposed to millionaires, but it would be dangerous to offer me the position.
If you tell the truth you don't have to remember anything.
Get your facts first, and then you can distort them as much as you please.
There is nothing in the world like a persuasive speech to fuddle the mental apparatus and upset the convictions and debauch the emotions of an audience not practised in the tricks and delusions of oratory.
Definition of a classic — something that everybody wants to have read and nobody wants to read.
Honesty is the best policy — when there is money in it.
Always do right. This will gratify some people, and astonish the rest.
The only reason why God created man is because he was disappointed with the monkey.
Customs do not concern themselves with right or wrong or reason. But they have to be obeyed; one reasons all around them until he is tired, but he must not transgress them, it is sternly forbidden.
Laws are sand, customs are rock. Laws can be evaded and punishment escaped, but an openly transgressed custom brings sure punishment.
I have been complimented many times and they always embarrass me; I always feel that they have not said enough.
When even the brightest mind in our world has been trained up from childhood in a superstition of any kind, it will never be possible for that mind, in its maturity, to examine sincerely, dispassionately, and conscientiously any evidence or any circumstance which shall seem to cast a doubt upon the validity of that superstition. I doubt if I could do it myself.
The easy confidence with which I know another man's religion is folly teaches me to suspect that my own is also.
We all do no end of feeling, and we mistake it for thinking. And out of it we get an aggregation which we consider a boon. Its name is public opinion. It is held in reverence. Some think it the voice of God.
Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society.
Principles have no real force except when one is well-fed.
An injurious lie is an uncommendable thing; and so, also, and in the same degree, is an injurious truth—a fact that is recognized by the law of libel.
I must have a prodigious quantity of mind; it takes me as much as a week sometimes to make it up.
Travel is fatal to prejudice, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness, and many of our people need it sorely on these accounts. Broad, wholesome, charitable views of men and things cannot be acquired by vegetating in one little corner of the earth all one's lifetime.
To promise not to do a thing is the surest way in the world to make a body want to go and do that very thing.
Many a small thing has been made large by the right kind of advertising.
To string incongruities and absurdities together in a wandering and sometimes purposeless way, and seem innocently unaware that they are absurdities, is the basis of the American art, if my position is correct.
Noise proves nothing. Often a hen who has merely laid an egg cackles as if she had laid an asteroid.
Truth is the most valuable thing we have. Let us economize it.
Man will do many things to get himself loved; he will do all things to get himself envied.
Don't part with your illusions. When they are gone you may still exist but you have ceased to live.
The best of us would rather be popular than right.
There are those who imagine that the unlucky accidents of life—life's 'experiences'—are in some way useful to us. I wish I could find out how. I never know one of them to happen twice. They always change off and swap around and catch you on your inexperienced side.
I started out alone to seek adventures. You don't really have to seek them—that is nothing but a phrase—they come to you.
In religion and politics, people's beliefs and convictions are in almost every case gotten at second-hand, and without examination, from authorities who have not themselves examined the questions at issue, but have taken them at second-hand from other non-examiners, whose opinions about them were not worth a brass farthing.
Good breeding consists in concealing how much we think of ourselves and how little we think of the other person.
You can't depend on your judgment when your imagination is out of focus.
Whenever the human race assembles to a number exceeding four, it cannot stand free speech.